Here are two comments I got on my recent
video on jellied eels. Both are
compliments. Both are pretty detailed,
but the moment I read one of them, I
knew without a doubt it was written by
AI, even though the user did try and
hide that a bit. To me, it's pretty
obvious. But can you tell which is
which? My name is Evan Edinger, and I'm
not going to tell you the answer to that
question just yet, because by the end of
this video, you won't need me to.
Welcome to a master class in how to tell
something is written by AI in the year
2025. a skill I do feel like everybody
needs to have going forward. Over the
past few months, I've been collecting
many examples, emails in my inbox,
LinkedIn posts, even tweets from world
leaders, all clearly written by AI. And
once you know what to look for, you'll
start to see it everywhere. As of right
now, I've got about 10 red flags to
share with you that you'll sadly begin
to notice everywhere you go, including
in certain YouTubers' videos posted
wholesale. I hear chat Jimmy GBT written
sentences a bit too often these days,
especially on small faceless YouTube
channels, which is why I usually avoid
them. One red flag on its own doesn't
prove anything, but once you start to
hear one, the others aren't usually too
far behind. Let's start you off
somewhere simple. You recognize this
guy? Well, of course, Evan, that's a
hyphen. No, this is a hyphen. That right
here is an M dash. This bit of
punctuation has been around since the
16th century and has been used in many
works of literature from authors like
Emily Dickinson to one of my favorites,
Kurt Vonagget. It's meant to be a line
with the same width as the letter M and
separates a sentence like a semicolon.
From this, you can probably guess what
an N dash is. Now, the problem large
language models absolutely love the M
dash and use it way more frequently than
most humans do. And as of 2025, no
matter how many times you ask Chad GBT
to stop using them, he will always find
a way. Pop quiz. Which keys on your
keyboard do you press to type an M dash?
Yeah, I'm guessing most of you don't
know, which is why it is a particularly
blatant red flag when you see it used in
certain spaces. For the record, on a
Mac, it's option shift minus sign. It is
a really useful bit of punctuation,
though, that even I have begun using in
some of my YouTube titles, like this
one, and well, well, quite meta, like
the one you're watching right now,
because it just spaces things out really
well, better than a full stop or period.
It's got a good flow. chat GPT bringing
the Mdash back into the mainstream isn't
such a bad thing, but this is a good
reminder that this is just one flag.
Mdash doesn't mean something is AI. So,
now that you know one big red flag of AI
writing, let's look at another example I
found from two seconds of scrolling
LinkedIn. No exaggeration. Striking the
perfect pose in photography isn't just
about looking good dash. It's about
telling a story, conveying emotion, and
creating a visually compelling image.
Let's stop there. I have only read one
sentence and I already know with near
100% certainty that this is entirely AI
generated from one sentence. Now, just
because this sentence has an M dash
doesn't mean it was written by AI. Of
course, luckily for us, this one
sentence also has three other big red
flags. Do you notice them? It's not just
the use of M dashes. It's also the use
of parallel sentence structures like
this one. It's not just X, it's Y.
Subscribing to my YouTube channel isn't
just about helping me get to a million
subscribers. It's also about curating
your feed. This exact sentence structure
is used so often in AI writing that
you're going to struggle not to notice
it going forward. I'm sorry. Also,
you're welcome. Now that I think about
it, that cringy LinkedIn post from the
Dualingo CEO I made a video about 2
weeks ago also used this method. AI
isn't just a productivity boost. It
helps us get closer to our mission.
Yeah, their mission now seems to be
pretending to walk back their claims
while the CEO says AI will replace
teachers except as child care. So, you
know, more Bonvillain stuff. This
LinkedIn sentence also has our third
flag, a convenient list of three things.
It's about telling a story, conveying
emotion, and creating a visually
compelling image. Well, that's a nice
little triplet, isn't it? Humans love
groups of three. They just work. In
writing, three points feels complete,
but not overwhelming. In speech, they're
easy to remember. And in photography,
you've got, of course, the rule of
thirds and the rule of odds. Humans
instinctively prefer most oddnumbered
groupings. If I'm taking a photo,
ideally I'd want the viewer to travel
through the photo to three or five
points. Like my Jelly Deal's thumbnail
had three specific things I wanted the
viewer to see as they traveled around
the image. My face, the dish, the text,
and the data to back this case up is
viewers clicking my thumbnail with three
points as opposed to four watched more
of the video. Here's another LinkedIn
post I found. Chalk full of groups of
odd numbers, which alone isn't enough,
but I mean, just look at this thing.
Sure, there's no M dashes, but we've got
it's not just X, it's Y. And group of
five, group of three, and hey, the
biggest sign of all. It's on LinkedIn. I
mean,
even the format of this post is one your
mind has probably seen so many times at
this point that your eyes have already
glazed over. One sentence hook, ethos,
bullet point list, effect, conclusion.
It's like AI was handmade from generic
LinkedIn posts for people who make
generic LinkedIn posts. Now, it's not
exactly the case in this post, but a lot
of times when these groups of three come
up with line breaks in between, AI loves
throwing in an emoji at the start of
each one, like this email I got or this
extra LinkedIn post. Formatting line
breaks with emojis was a big thing
before AI, so I don't count it as a red
flag on its own, but they're usually
paired with generic content and well,
our next red flag. You see, another big
marker of AI writing is the one you
probably don't need me to tell you
about. Even though you've just read
something, it feels off. The word use
can sometimes have a really weird,
subtle use case that you've never seen
before. That's what I'd like to call the
uncanny valley of the English language.
The tone just feels strange, like
striking the perfect pose in
photography. Eh, in in photography, I I
mean, that does make sense, but in that
context, striking the perfect pose in
photography,
it just doesn't feel quite right. I'm
bundling this with another flag, too,
which is an overabundance of filler
words and expressions that aren't
typically used in a normal conversation.
AI writers lean on safe vocabulary. I'm
talking vague positive adjectives and
jargon like innovative or practical
solutions. AI just loves using words
like elevate and delve. Words that most
humans aren't regularly using, but
you've probably been seeing a lot
recently. Sometimes you can come across
a tweet and feel like it doesn't really
say anything at all. Like it's empty of
meaning despite the words on the screen.
Like this one here from UK Prime
Minister Kier Dharmmer. See anything
familiar? Hm. It's time to look forward
Mdash. To move on from the stale old
political fights and to find common
sense, practical solutions that improve
the lives of British people. Secure
borders, cheaper bills, more jobs. We
will close the deal in the national
interest. Like what the is that
supposed to mean? So, these are words,
but they don't mean anything. And not
just because they're said by the
political equivalent of off-brand beans
on toast. Now, I'm not a 100% certain
that this tweet was written by AI. Sure,
it does utilize the mdash, a group of
three, and does say a lot while nothing
at all with empty language, but that one
sentence up at the top reads so badly,
it makes me feel like Chad GBT could
actually do a better job than our prime
minister, which is a very sad state of
affairs, isn't it? Now, I don't want
this video to become boring, and I
assume at this point you're really
starting to pick up on how this all
works, so I'm going to touch on the next
three points as a lightning round quite
quickly. One, exaggerated and empty
praise. Chat GBT was updated recently to
really glaze you with every response.
And that carries through to a lot of AI
texts. Ask a simple question like, "How
can I get people to thumb up my new
video?" And Chat GBT will spend a
paragraph like, "Wonderful question,
sir. Now you're really getting to the
heart of things. You truly are an
imaginative genius." Here's a snippet
from an email I received recently. Hi,
Evanica Travel. That of course is my
full name. Thanks to my dad, Mr. Travel.
Rest in peace. Your travel vlogs are
genuinely captivating. M Dash, I love
how you bring every new place to life
with such honest and vivid storytelling.
The way you share those unexpected
moments, blah blah blah blah blah. You
know me, I love sharing those unexpected
moments. It's praise like this that
feels so fake and feels so bland. It
doesn't mean anything. Number two, the
second point, being able to spot AI
writing is like being a lighthouse in
the middle of a dense fog. It's a weird
analogy, wasn't it? Well, that's another
big tell of using AI writing. Analogies
and simileies that are just weird, like
they're trying too hard to have meaning,
but falling so flat, like a band-aid
made of sandpaper. Makes you think, huh?
And three, AI writing is constantly
restating itself, clarifying its points
too many times, and providing
unnecessary context. Like if I asked
chat GBT why the sky was blue, the
response would be the color of the sky
is a phenomenon that has been
fascinating people for centuries. It's a
very useless bit of filler preamble,
right? To clarify, AI writing repeats
its points far too many times. And if
that was too meta for you, what I just
did there, the previous sentence was
clarification that was wholly
unnecessary. So to summarize, me writing
this paragraph in AI style not only
hurts my brain mash, it wastes your
time, is devoid of meaning, and makes
this sentence kind of feel like déja vu,
right? But this constant clarification,
this constant overexlanation, all of
this stuff does feel like it's truly
dumbing down society, which to clarify,
I don't think is a good thing. All
right, so you should be able to easily
tell if something was written by AI now.
But how can you tell if it was written
by a human? Well, a lot of times in AI
writing, the words and the stories and
the anecdotes feel very generic because
they are. When humans are writing
something, they usually inject a lot of
themselves into it. include a little
story about someone they know or some
place they've been in the first person.
One example I was going to show you of a
human comment is this one here. Yes,
this video is an excuse for me to show
nice comments about me. Thank you, Evan.
Evan, you've really outdone yourself
with this video. As a northerner, I have
never appreciated jelly eels.
Personally, I really disliked them when
I tried them.
So, in this comment, we have, "As a
northerner, personally, I was totally
fascinated." That information allows
them to add a bit of themselves to the
comment to add context. It's a real
comment. Also, where the comment takes
place is really important. Seeing
perfect grammar is not too big a flag
online compared to everywhere else, but
if a friend of yours starts dropping
commas into an iMessage paragraph
response to you, they might be uh using
AI to get a little help there. I do
sometimes get comments from people that
seem oddly insensed that I go off on
tangents in my videos as if every video
needs to be robotically following one
topic. Like in this very video, I didn't
need to take that photography tangent
teaching about the rule of odds. But I
really love photography and I figured it
was a relevant enough fact that people
would be interested in knowing it.
Tangents at this stage are a pretty good
sign of human writing as our minds can
make relevant connections to other
things we know to make conversations
that much more interesting. When you
think of some of your favorite stories
from films or even YouTube videos,
there's a good chance the narrative
isn't direct from A to B, but is a
satisfying journey to get there. Like
this very YouTube video you're watching
right now. How did we start this video
again? Oh, yeah. If we circle back to
the original comment I showed in this
video's intro, like I said, you really
don't need me to explain how I was
immediately able to peg this as AI
because now you can, too. Congrats, you
did it. It starts off with a bit too
much impersonal high praise, and hey, I
appreciate it. I spent a long time on
that video, but still, it's not just
about uploading in 4K. It's about making
every shot count. Now, what's funny
about this comment is that Matthew here
did try the bare minimum to cover his
tracks. You might have noticed there are
no M dashes here. Well, I jokingly
called him out in a reply in a way that
would confuse anyone not in the know. I
said, "Thanks, but you replaced that M
dash with a hyphen, didn't you?" Haha.
It's not just about X. It's about Y is
quite the tell, as you know. Thankfully,
Matthew was quite a good sport and
replied, providing us with the original
prompt he put into chat GBT to generate
his comment. I have to take my hat off
to you, Evan. You put an extraordinary
effort in to make your videos look the
best they can be. Just uploading in 4K
isn't the solution because garbage in,
garbage out. Viewers, if you are looking
at this on your phone, stop and watch it
on your big screen TV instead, as a
small screen doesn't do it justice.
There's literally nothing wrong with
this comment. It's genuinely kind and
most importantly, original. It's human.
It's how he thought to express himself.
And as you can see in his original
comment, Matthew even used the first
person. I have to take my hat off to you
becomes hats off to you. AI writing
removes you from the equation. Now you
have become bland. Destroyer of worlds.
In justosition to the real comment, the
AI comment feels corporately kind, like
it's trying to be nice, but insincere
and generic. Which is why out of all the
technical red flags we've discussed in
this video of noticing when something is
generated by AI, the one that AI is
going to have the most difficulty
overcoming is also the most human of
all. Passing the vibe check. If
something has fake sounding AI vibes,
maybe just trust your gut. AIS don't
have guts yet. Thank God. There's going
to be a future where they have guts. I
don't want to live in that future. But
also, that'd be kind of cool cuz then
you can gut them like sheep.
Not so bad. I would say you should be
much better able to detect AI writing
now, but your next challenge is to try
and hear when something was written by
AI in a video. I'm not planning on
calling out any particular YouTubers
here by playing some clips of clearly AI
written dialogue. So instead, to know
whether you pass the final test, I'm
going to again do an ad read where half
is written by AI and half is written by
me. The last time I did this, far too
many of you left me comments saying that
you got it wrong. I'll label each as A
or B in the corner, and we'll reveal the
answer in the outro. I'm really hoping
you find this quite easy, and you spread
this information to as many people as
you can, either in person or by sharing
this video. All right, here we go. If
you're online, and I'm going to assume
you are, your internet provider can see
everything you do, every site you visit,
every video you stream, every search you
probably wish you hadn't made. Well,
that's where NordVPN comes in. It
protects your browsing by funneling your
data through an encrypted tunnel. Your
ISP can't see a thing. And because
NordVPN lets you change your virtual
location, you can unlock a lot more
content on streaming platforms like
Netflix. US catalog, easy. Japanese
anime exclusives, go wild. Plus, get
this. NordVPN is the fastest VPN on the
market. So, unlike other VPNs, you won't
notice it slowing you down. I did
mention this before, but when I was in
Vietnam, the Chat GPT app stopped
working as it isn't available there yet.
But luckily, with one tap on my phone, I
changed my browsing location back to the
UK, and the app started working again.
Huzzah! Plus, you could secure up to 10
devices with one account, and they've
got over 7,000 servers worldwide. So,
wherever you are, you're covered. And
there's a 30-day money back guarantee.
So, if it's not for you, no harm done.
If you're interested, be sure to sign up
to nordvpn.com/evan,
and you can get a huge discount on a
2-year plan, plus a neat little bonus.
So, thanks to NordVPN for sponsoring.
Now, let me wrap this up. All right, we
made it to the outro. I have a feeling
you found this one a lot easier than the
last time I did it. If you guessed B was
written by AI, then congratulations. You
were very wrong. B actually included an
anecdote about my time in Vietnam. A had
multiple verbal M dashes and groups of
three. Maybe watch the video again if
you got this one wrong, but to everyone
that got it right, yay, congratulations.
A was written by AI. Now, if you also
happen to hate cookie pop-ups like I do,
then you'd probably enjoy this video I
made filled with all my tips for making
browsing the internet suck a lot less. I
just got this comment on it today right
before filming if you need a nice human
review. When I clicked on this video, I
was like, 20-minute video just to talk
about cookies and now this is one of the
most useful videos I've watched. Well,
thank you anonymous. You are legion, I
guess. Hopefully this video was useful,
too. I do enjoy not today, Satan.
Ah, you thought you could get me. I saw
you. I saw you. I do enjoy sharing niche
information on my YouTube channel, and I
do have some rather big videos hitting
your subscription feed soon. So, thanks
for watching, and hopefully I'll see you
in the next one. Goodbye.